hi guys and welcome to your eetu task of
the week my name is Alex and my name is
J and what is the task of the week this
week well this week we are working on
IELTS reading and specifically true
false not given
yikes true false not given is tough
especially the difference between false
and not given that is a really
mind-bending question what are we going
to do in detail all right well in the
class today I'm gonna explain the task
show you an easy method take you through
some simple practice and give you time
at the end for some solo practice
alright that sounds cool now I have to
go because I'm gonna go and work on e to
school which is our other platform for
general english-language learning which
is exciting but I'll come back at the
end when you share some tips okay just
before I go if you're on YouTube and
watching this you may want to click
Subscribe hit like leave a comment and
share this with your friends
so true false not given is just one of
the question types you might get in
IELTS reading general or academic what
does it look like well of course you get
a reading text and then you get a set of
questions or statements and then you'll
see these instructions does the
information in the statement match the
information in the passage on your
answer sheet right true if the statement
agrees with the information false if the
statement contradicts the information
and not given if there is no information
on this statement so what does this mean
exactly well we're gonna start really
really basic ok I'm going to start with
this little guide this is a Tasmanian
devil let's check out three sentences
and answer them either true false or not
given based only on what we see here
what's in the picture I told you we're
starting basic number one the Tasmanian
devil is mostly black so I can see he's
got a little bit of white on his chest
and I'll do his arms but he is mostly
black this is true
number two the Tasmanian Devil has long
ears see his round little ears there
this is of course false I can see that
it's false number three the Tasmanian
devil eats meat well it looks like it
eats meat it's got huge teeth and in
fact I know it eats meat but from this
picture I can't say that for sure so the
answer has to be not given I know that
was really easy but don't worry it's
about to get more difficult so what's
the best method to deal with this type
of question we always follow a
three-step method here at e2 and it's
super super simple let's have a look
step one identify key words in the
statement step two find those words or
synonyms in the
next and step three maybe the most
important one is read carefully slow
down and read carefully so let's go I'm
gonna see four questions and one text
now remember that step one of the method
is to identify keywords in the
statements so let's do that first
question number one Tasmanian Devils
look fierce look fierce so they look
aggressive number two Devils are
dangerous to humans key words here
dangerous and humans question three the
number of Devils has fallen slightly
since the 1990s number fallen slightly
since the 1990s you might choose
slightly different words that's okay I
think that these are the best keywords
and question four DFTD is a treatable
condition what is DFTD I don't know but
hopefully the text will tell us and
treatable condition is also a key word
so keep the 3-step method in your mind
we've already done step one identify key
words in the statement and now we need
to find those words or they're synonyms
words with a similar meaning in the text
and then we're gonna read carefully
before we choose our answer question
number one Tasmanian Devils look fierce
Skan Skan Skan for similar words I can
see it here and step three I need to
slow down and read carefully despite
being known for its threatening
appearance and savage vocalizations the
Tasmanian Devil is a timid creature that
poses no threat to humans so does the
Tasmanian Devil look fierce well it has
a threatening appearance so this is true
they have the same meaning question two
Devils are dangerous to humans I scan
scan scan looking for dangerous looking
for humans I can see here threat humans
and it's in the same sentence the
Tasmanian devil is a timid creature that
poses no threat to humans
so our Devils dangerous to humans no
they're not this is false question 3 the
number of Devils has fallen slightly
since the 1990s scanned for 1990's here
it is and slow down and read since the
late 1990s the devil facial tumour
disease DFTD has drastically reduced the
devil population and now threatens the
survival of the species which in 2008
was declared to be endangered so the
number of Devils has fallen since the
1990s yes it has reduced but hasn't
fallen slightly the text says it has
fallen drastically this is significantly
so this makes the answer false it hasn't
fallen slightly it's fallen drastically
dramatically question 4 DFTD is a
treatable condition here it is in the
text DFTD has drastically reduced the
population this is the devil facial
tumour disease now threatens the
survival of the species which has been
declared to be endangered is this
disease treatable is there a cure
I don't know from this text there's no
information so this is not given how did
you go with that a little bit more
challenging let's try it the most
difficult one now and I'm gonna get you
to do this on your own but I will help
with the first one we're going to look
at a longer text now just refresh your
memory with the three-step method
identify find read here's our first
question
true/false or not given number one
Tasmanian Devils only eat food that they
kill themselves
step one underline the key
it's identify the keywords Tasmanian
Devils only eat food that they kill
themselves step 2 find the similar words
in the text can you find them
so food predators scavenger feeding
these are similar to the words in the
question
step three let's slow down and read the
Tasmanian Devil is a nocturnal animal
and after spending its day hiding in a
den or dense bush land you can travel up
to 16 kilometres by night searching for
food they were formidable predator it is
mainly a scavenger are feeding on
whatever is available from cow carcasses
to reptiles amphibians and other small
mammals so do Tasmanian devils only eat
food that they kill themselves that is
the crucial question here I know that
they are a predator but for Texas they
are mainly a scavenger so this is false
and I know that this is false based on
my understanding of the vocabulary
scavenger is an animal that feeds on
dead animals and plants so it doesn't
kill the animal it just feeds on them
and a predator is an animal that kills
and eats other animals alright your turn
now follow the 3-step method and answer
the next four questions pause the video
now for four minutes and challenge
yourself
you
how did you go did you find all the
answers
let's check together
question two Devils can help to limit
the number of non-native pests here are
the key words here's the correct section
of the text and when I read around it in
this regard it plays an important role
in maintaining bush and farm hygiene
preventing outbreaks of flies and other
insects and curbing the rise of invasive
species such as cats and foxes that
might otherwise feed on the carrion so
Devils can help to limit the number of
non-native species they are curbing the
rise this is the same meaning it is true
question three dingo has contributed to
the demise of the devil's on the
mainland keywords find them in the text
and read hopefully you found that the
answer here is true question four bit
tricky this one 95% of Tasmania has no
Devils key word here 95% easy to find
this word in the text and we read around
it sightings of the devil fell by up to
95 percent in some regions of Tasmania
however captive breeding programs and
interventions both on Tasmania and
mainland Australia helping to bolster
numbers so 95 percent of Tasmania has no
Devils is that what this says in the
text sightings of the devil fell by up
to 95 percent I don't really know how
much of Tasmania has Devils or no Devils
so this answer is not given I can't tell
from this text final question number
five most Devils now live on the
Australian mainland keywords here and I
can see mainland right down the bottom
and read around it thirty-five zoos and
organizations are participating in the
program swapping their devils regularly
in order to preserve the genetic
diversity of the species devil Ark in
New South Wales is one such organization
currently home to over half of all
mainland Devils with some captive born
animals already rehomed at the forest
year peninsula Tasmania so Devil Ark in
New South Wales has over half of all the
Devils that live on the mainland but do
most Devils now live on the mainland how
many live on the mainland how many live
in Tasmania I don't know so this is not
given and your answer sheet should look
like this
cool all right how did you go with those
true false not given questions Alex just
before we finish up give any tips for
everyone watching at home
I sure do so here are three tips number
one follow the 3-step method it's easy
and effective number two keep a
vocabulary journal write down the words
that you didn't know from today and
three come and join us at our live
classes at e2 language calm cool alright
ET language calm whoa all right can you
show them what that is sure alright
YouTube language calm is a platform that
has a hundred percent online IELTS test
preparation with heaps of overview
lessons methods practice questions mock
test grammar lessons and much much more
off of that you can actually take
one-on-one tutorials with expert
teachers on writing or speaking or
reading or listening as well as as you
said join the live group classes and you
can also get speaking and writing
feedback cool thanks very much for
watching thanks Elias thank you bye
[Music]